  
  <p>We believe <a href="http://www.agilemanifesto.org">Agile
  software development</a> is being dumbed down, commodified,
  and is losing its spirit. We seek to replace the current
  name with one having two virtues: first, that it capture
  more exactly the attitudes originally behind Agile; second,
  that it be obscure enough that no one will assume they
  already know what it means and that&mdash;amazingly
  enough!&mdash;they are already doing it.
  </p>

  <p>There are two halves to the story: an attitude toward <b>technology</b> and an attitude toward <b>the social</b>. To form the Agile attitude, those two attitudes are crossed (hybridized) like lions or tigers are crossed to form <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liger">ligers</a>. Or perhaps a better analogy would be <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicken_hybrids#Chicken_Hybrids">crosses between chicken and game birds</a>, since those species are less closely related than lions and tigers&mdash;just as technology and the social are often (<a href="http://www.exampler.com/blog/2007/11/06/latour-table-of-contents/">wrongly</a>) considered wildly different things.</p>
  <h2>Technology</h2>
  <p>Within <em>technology</em>, <a href="http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/artisanal">artisanal</a> is supposed to connote:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <p>
	Higher quality and a focus on a more demanding customer.
      </p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>
      </p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>
	A <a href="http://manifesto.softwarecraftsmanship.org/">craftsmanlike</a> approach to process. That process is sometimes, <i>but not exclusively</i>, &#8220;old fashioned&#8221; or manual. We are like this <a href="http://njmonthly.com/articles/lifestyle/health_and_wellness/artisanal-foods.html">artisanal cheese maker</a>:
      </p>
      <blockquote>
	<p>
	  But [Wajswol] gladly lets technology lend a hand. Twice a day, in the &#8220;milking parlor,&#8221; a computerized lactation carousel that handles 60 sheep at once&mdash;the only one in the U.S. for sheep, Wajswol claims&mdash;milks 300 ewes per hour. In the cheese room, vats of milk are heated to the precise temperatures required to activate specific strains of bacteria to produce just the right texture of curd.
	</p>
	<p>
	  &#8220;Machinery helps you pay attention to what’s important,&#8221; Wajswol says. &#8220;In cheese making, there are a couple of things you need to focus on. If you can eliminate the nonsense&mdash;the mundane, nonskilled steps, like feeding the animals or warming milk correctly&mdash;you can spend more time focusing on the texture of the curd and making sure the product comes out good.&#8221;
	</p>
      </blockquote>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <p>But artisanal is too broad of a term. It needs to qualify something else. What?</p>

  <p>At a workshop once, <a
  href="http://www.mcbreen.ab.ca/">Pete McBreen</a> said
  &#8220;The Agile methods are methods created by people who
  like to program.&#8221; While that&#8217;s not entirely
  true, we bet it&#8217;s more true of that particular bunch
  of people than of any
  previous gaggle of methodologists. And their oddity went
  even further: a surprising number of the authors of the <a
  href="http://agilemanifesto.org/">Agile Manifesto</a> had
  programmed in <a
  href="http://www.smalltalk.org/main/">Smalltalk</a>. They
  were technology enthusiasts, and that enthusiasm&mdash;a
  &#8220;gosh wow!&#8221; enthusiasm for continuous
  integration tools, refactoring tools, programming languages,
  testing tools, and the like&mdash;has been a continuous part
  of the growth of Agile. It&#8217;s been a touch
  disreputable, though&mdash;because of the Agile
  Manifesto&#8217;s &#8220;individuals and interactions over
  processes and tools&#8221;&mdash;so we've chosen
  the artistic style called <b><a
  href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retro-futurism">retro-futurism</a></b>
  to call renewed attention to it.</p>


  <p>We are using retro-futurism in one of its senses:</p>
  <blockquote><p>
    [a] vision of the future as seen through the eyes of the past, often a utopian society characterized by high technology (relative to the base time), unusual or exaggerated artistic, architectural and fashion styles, and an abundance of consumer goods; its spirit of optimism [&#8230;] is a contrast with <a href="http://www.cyberpunkreview.com/what-is-cyberpunk/">cyberpunk</a> [&#8230;]</p>
    <p>(Quote from <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retro-futurism">ibid</a>.)
  </p></blockquote>

  <p>Another way of looking at the style is as a response to
  the oft-heard complaint, &#8220;It&#8217;s the future
  now. Where&#8217;s my flying car?&#8221; The physical world
  is disappointingly short on flying cars, rocket packs, and
  all the rest. In the software world, though, we have
  flying cars: tools&mdash;and team-scale processes&mdash;that still evoke that
  old excitement and <a
  href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sense_of_wonder">sense of
  wonder</a>. </p> 

  <p><i>So. The <b>technology</b> half of the cross casts attention on giddy enthusiasm for both our products and how we build them.</i></p>
  <h2>The Social</h2>
  <p>Agile&#8217;s early emphasis on self-organizing teams caused some to brand it <b>anarchic</b>. Soothing those fears has led, in too many cases, to team processes that are externally imposed and therefore ossified. To counter that trend, we want to embrace the anarchic strain in Agile. (What should be done to sooth fears, we believe, is nothing more than producing working software at frequent intervals. So long as a team delivers that which satisfies, no one should care if an integral part of their process is capering naked in the light of the full moon.)</p>

  <p>At the same time, we want to recenter emphasis on the <b>team</b>. Too much of modern-day Agile depends on <em>someone else</em> to make it succeed. Typically that&#8217;s upper management, whether via <a href="http://www.leadersdirect.com/servant.html">servant leadership</a>, outright command-and-control management, or something in between. While we can&#8217;t ignore the world outside the team, we think it better to take the attitude that, while it can make Agile fail, it cannot make it <em>succeed</em>. Agile lives and dies by the team.</p>
  <p>Casting about for something odd that would combine
  &#8220;anarchy&#8221; and &#8220;team&#8221;, we came upon
  <b>anarcho-syndicalism</b>. <a
  href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarcho-syndicalism">Anarcho-syndicalism</a>
  was an economic/political movement from around 100 years
  ago. The anarcho-syndicalists had laborers as their
  constituency. Their goal was to end the oppressive
  power&mdash;and very existence&mdash;of both the State and
  large-scale corporations by countering them with
  self-organizing trades unions. Anarcho-syndicalism&#8217;s
  concentration on the self-organization and solidarity of the
  people whose hands and minds make the product is reminiscent of Agile at its best.</p>
  <p>We are also taken by anarcho-syndicalism&#8217;s emphasis
  on <em>direct action</em>. Others believed that the route to
  better working conditions lay in, say, electing
  representatives who would speak for the workers, but the
  anarcho-syndicalists rejected that. In that rejection, we
  hear echoes of the attitude that teams should not wait for
  <strike>Daddy</strike> management to fix their problems.</p>
  <p>Having chosen an outlandish
  reference&mdash;anarcho-syndicalism? a type of omigod
  <em>socialism??</em>&mdash;we add a softening
  qualifier. Ending the State, fighting the Corporation, doing
  away with wage slavery&mdash;none of these are part of our
  programme. We&#8217;re just trying to develop good software
  in a pleasant way that makes sense. Therefore: the qualifier
  <b>team-scale</b> is intended to remind that our message is
  to the workers of a team, not the <a
  href="http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/k/karlmarx109309.html">workers
  of the world</a>.</p> 
  <p><i>So. The <b>social</b> half of the cross casts attention on perfecting the team. Or, rather, on the team perfecting itself.</i></p>
  <h2>Summary</h2>
  <p>To the extent that Agile has lost its way, a slogan that reminds us of the original path will help. To the extent that Agile as a movement now favors bland conformity over scrappiness and outrageous ideas, an outrageous slogan can help us get back to where we once belonged.</p>
